## Logging and Monitoring Security Events
Logging is the primary form of instrumentation that attempts to capture signals generated by events. Events are any actions that take place within the systems environment and cause measurable or observable change in one or more elements or resources within the system. Logging imposes a computational cost but is invaluable when determining accountability. Proper design of logging environments and regular log reviews remain best practices regardless of the type of computer system. 

Major controls frameworks emphasize the importance of organizational logging practices. Information that may be relevant to being recorded and reviewed include (but is not limited to): 
- user IDs
- system activities
- dates/times of key events (e.g., logon and logoff)
- device and location identity
- successful and rejected system and resource access attempts
- system configuration changes and system protection activation and deactivation events

 Logging and monitoring the health of the information environment is essential to identifying inefficient or improperly performing systems, detecting compromises and providing a record of how systems are used. Robust logging practices provide tools to effectively correlate information from diverse systems to fully understand the relationship between one activity and another. 

Log reviews are an essential function not only for security assessment and testing but also for identifying security incidents, policy violations, fraudulent activities and operational problems near the time of occurrence. Log reviews support audits – forensic analysis related to internal and external investigations – and provide support for organizational security baselines. Review of historic audit logs can determine if a vulnerability identified in a system has been previously exploited. 

It is helpful for an organization to create components of a log management infrastructure and determine how these components interact. This aids in preserving the integrity of log data from accidental or intentional modification or deletion and in maintaining the confidentiality of log data. 

Controls are implemented to protect against unauthorized changes to log information. Operational problems with the logging facility are often related to alterations to the messages that are recorded, log files being edited or deleted, and storage capacity of log file media being exceeded. Organizations must maintain adherence to retention policy for logs as prescribed by law, regulations and corporate governance. Since attackers want to hide the evidence of their attack, the organization’s policies and procedures should also address the preservation of original logs. Additionally, the logs contain valuable and sensitive information about the organization.  Appropriate measures must be taken to protect the log data from malicious use.

 -Events
 -Event Detail
 -Raw Log(at the bottom of event detail)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Data Security Event Example
Here is a data security event example. It’s a raw log, and it is one way to see if someone tried to break into a secure file and hijack the server. Of course, there are other systems now that are a little more user-friendly. But security engineers get very familiar with some of these codes and can figure out exactly who was trying to log it, was it a secure port or a questionable port that they were trying to use to penetrate our site. 

Information security is not something that you just plug in as needed. You can have some patching on a system that already exists, such as updates, but if you don’t have a secure system, you can’t just plug in something to protect it. From the very beginning, we need to plan for that security, even before the data is introduced into the network. 



Event Logging Best Practices
Different tools are used depending on whether the risk from the attack is from traffic coming into or leaving the infrastructure. Ingress monitoring refers to surveillance and assessment of all inbound communications traffic and access attempts. Devices and tools that offer logging and alerting opportunities for ingress monitoring include: 

Firewalls
Gateways
Remote authentication servers
IDS/IPS tools
SIEM solutions
Anti-malware solutions
Egress monitoring is used to regulate data leaving the organization’s IT environment. The term currently used in conjunction with this effort is data loss prevention (DLP) or data leak protection. The DLP solution should be deployed so that it can inspect all forms of data leaving the organization, including: 

Email (content and attachments)
Copy to portable media
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
Posting to web pages/websites
Applications/application programming interfaces (APIs) 




Which of the following does not normally influence an organization’s retention policy for logs? (D5, L5.1.3) 
 A. Laws
 B. Audits
 C. Corporate governance
 D. Regulations
Correct answer: B. Audits

Audits are a way to measure compliance with policy, but do not normally influence the retention policy itself. Organizations must maintain adherence to retention policy for logs as prescribed by law, regulations and corporate governance.
