Tasha: Now that we've heard a little bit about cybersecurity as a profession, do you know who's a great person to learn more from? Manny: Who? Tasha: Susan! She's an SSCP, which means she earned her Systems Security Certified Practitioner certification from (ISC)2. She's working as a data security analyst, and with the SSCP certification, her career is taking off. Susan stops into JavaSip every morning for a cup of coffee on her way to work. This morning, she observes that Keith is looking sad. Susan: Hey, Keith. You having a hard morning? You seem a little down. Keith: Yeah, I was up late last night, searching the internet trying to figure out what to do with my life. You're in cybersecurity, right? Susan: Mm-hmm. Keith: Yeah, I was searching the internet and found out that that's one of the fastest growing careers, but what does that even mean? Susan: Well, yes, I am in cybersecurity, and it means that I protect online data from being stolen or altered. Yeah, I assess risks to our network and respond with various safeguards. You think you might be interested in cybersecurity? Keith: Oh, no. I'm not that good with computers. Plus, I took a computer programming class in high school and that didn't turn out too well. So don't ask me if I was good at math because I'm not. Besides, I couldn't sit at a desk and code all day. Susan: Keith, cybersecurity professionals do not have to be coders, you know? I've seen you on the coffee shop's laptop and on your own devices a lot. You seem pretty knowledgeable to me. Keith: Yeah, but cybersecurity seems intimidating. It's like you have to be a tech expert or something, like you. Susan: Let me put it this way. You know the fire inspectors who come to JavaSip every year? They check to make sure the building aligns with safety standards and that you have smoke alarms and escape routes. Keith: Yeah. I always appreciate a good report. Susan: Yeah, well, part of my job is a lot like the fire inspector. I check to make sure the infrastructure aligns with standards, both in the physical building and in the way we handle our data, and I check to make sure that everybody knows what to do in case of an emergency. If a problem does occur, then I'm a little like a paramedic trying to assess and treat any injuries after an accident. Then, I might behave like a detective, tracking down what happened so it doesn't happen again. Sometimes, I even feel like a fortune teller trying to predict the future so that we can be protected against any unknown threats. Keith: Yeah. That seems like an interesting image, all right? Susan: Yeah. Does that sort of thing appeal to you? Because I have heard you say that you want to help people in a meaningful way, and in cybersecurity you can help all kinds of people, companies, and even the world protect personal information and online data. Keith: Yeah. I'd like to learn more about it. Thanks, Susan.  Susan: Yeah, I'd love to chat more, but I should get to the office now. I don't want any bad actors penetrating our computer network while I'm out enjoying a cup of coffee. Have a good day, Keith. Keith: You, too. 