Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
Role-based access control (RBAC), as the name suggests, sets up user permissions based on roles. Each role represents users with similar or identical permissions.

Narrator: A role is created and assigned the access required for personnel working in that role. When a user takes on a job, the administrator assigns them to the appropriate role. If a user leaves that role, the administrator removes that user and then access for that user associated with that role is removed. RBAC works well in an environment with high staff turnover and multiple personnel with similar access requirements. 

RBAC in the Workplace:
Role-based access control provides each worker privileges based on what role they have in the organization. Only Human Resources staff have access to personnel files, for example; only Finance has access to bank accounts; each manager has access to their own direct reports and their own department. Very high-level system administrators may have access to everything; new employees would have very limited access, the minimum required to do their jobs.  

Monitoring these role-based permissions is important, because if you expand one person’s permissions for a specific reason—say, a junior worker’s permissions might be expanded so they can temporarily act as the department manager—but you forget to change their permissions back when the new manager is hired, then the next person to come in at that junior level might inherit those permissions when it is not appropriate for them to have them. This is called privilege creep or permissions creep. We discussed this before, when we were talking about provisioning new users.  

Having multiple roles with different combinations of permissions can require close monitoring to make sure everyone has the access they need to do their jobs and nothing more. In this world where jobs are ever-changing, this can sometimes be a challenge to keep track of, especially with extremely granular roles and permissions. Upon hiring or changing roles, a best practice is to not copy user profiles to new users. It is recommended that standard roles are established, and new users are created based on those standards rather than an actual user. That way, new employees start with the appropriate roles and permissions. 


RBAC Example:
Let us consider how roles and permissions would be assigned to a new employee, change when someone is promoted, or be suspended or removed when someone leaves the organization. Each role would include appropriate access levels. Although role-based security, also known as RBAC, seems to be straightforward, how it is actually implemented can vary greatly. 

Chad Kliewer: All right. Good morning, good afternoon, or good evening, depending on where in the world you're listening from. Welcome to this discussion on access controls. I'm your host Chad Kliewer, holder of the CISSP and CCSP and current (ISC)2 member. And I'll be facilitating your experience today, and I'm extremely excited to welcome our special guest for today's discussion, Daisha Pennie, who's also a CISSP and an (ISC)2 member. And Daisha comes to us with more than 15 years of IT experience practicing within public state university. So, let's get started. So, we're going to start this discussion today on access control by defining what access control is in a simple way, and simply put, it's the process of permitting or restricting access to applications or data at a granular level such as per user, per group, or per resources. And Daisha, as you're aware, access control strategy and implementation is much more difficult in an organizational setting than really what it is in a textbook. It's a whole lot more difficult when we put those human connections in place. And that's what we want to try to do today. And we know that every employee needs enough access to do the job. And every time you give an employee more access it introduces more risk to the organization and to the systems. So how do you strike a balance in that? Daisha Pennie: Well, I would definitely say, you know, the key word in your definition is process. It's all about processes. I think, you know, if you can identify the categories of your user base that's going to be the easiest way to build your process to have some access control. So, I think a lot of times there's this concern that you're going to get one to one, you're going to have each individual user's going to have their different access needs, and that creates a whole lot of burden and overhead for your administration to deal with. So, it's really about streamlining, which goes beyond your access control processes and into your organization, and making sure that everyone has an idea, like, ‘This is how we define this role, and this is the access that that role needs.’ So, it's kind of an organization wide issue. Kliewer: All right, and I love the way you're already leading into role-based access, and we're going to get more into role-based access down the road here in just a little bit. One of the things I wanted to talk about a little bit before we get there is talking about, you know, a time when an operation or when an access control strategy failed, and it failed quite miserably. So, one example that we pulled up was an access control failure in the UK which resulted in the loss of the confidential information of 25 million people, or about the population of the state of Texas here in the US. And revenue and customs information was lost when an employee mailed a copy of an entire database, and it was lost somewhere in transit. So, it was something that was a physical copy that was mailed maybe on a USB drive, maybe on a disk or some sort, and was lost in transit. So, it didn't make it to its destination. And then we were at the center, you know, then her Majesty's revenue and customs was at the center of the media ridicule and the government faced huge embarrassment. And the worst part is, is there were only a couple thousand records that were even requested, and the entire database was sent. So, what parts did you pick out of there that could have been done better? Pennie: Well, you know, honestly when they went back, they did a review and they found there were some key issues. One of which is kind of goes back to my point about organization wide. So, they found that there was a cultural issue at their organization, or in this case this a government agency, but organization culture around security was they had policies, but they weren't really, they were kind of bureaucratic and they weren't very operational. So, they had policy, not necessarily procedure. And so it goes back to those processes that you have to have. And so, they didn't have the appropriate, for example, they could have had some approval processes to make sure there's an additional check to make sure that they were sending the appropriate database to whoever had requested it. And they could have had, you know, just a whole variety of processes to ensure that they were getting the right information or access to the individual that requested it, or a vetting process. They could have had a vetting process. There's a whole variety of ways you can control access that I don't think a lot of times we just think it's you request it and then you get it, or it's removed when you leave. We don't really think about the whole variety of ways that we can actually control access, be it fine grain control, like you mentioned before with your definition also. So, I think that was one of the breakdowns that they found. And then they also did kind of an audit process to ensure that their procedures that they did develop were actually being followed and were effective. So that's also kind of that continuous monitoring that has to happen. Kliewer: Okay. And I don't know about you, but I'm already starting to hear a little bit of a of a trend here in our discussion. And once again, when we're talking about data control, we're talking about access control, that data or once again, we've got to connect the people to the practices. Pennie: Yep. Kliewer: And sounds to me like they had some pretty good practices in place textbook wise. Maybe they had some good policies, but they never connected the people part of it. Pennie: No. Yeah. Kliewer: So that sounds like a really good point to bring up there. So, it kind of segues that into another question that I had, and it is similar but a little bit different, but what are some ways that we can leverage the different access control methods or strategies to prevent unintentional or even intentional insider threats? Pennie: So, you know, when it comes to insider threats, because that's a really great question, the intentional insider threat in some ways I think is easier sometimes, I think they both have their downsides and their ups on controlling them. The unintentional is really about fine grain access control, and it goes back to that streamlining. I think what ends up happening, kind of like I mentioned before, you end up with this one to one, this individual wears four hats and so they need four different roles access but one of those or two of those four may have additional access that they don't actually need. So, you end up with this access creep, and then that also happens when, you know, someone changes positions, and they hold onto some access and then they just start building access over time. So that's one of the ways that an insider threat unintentionally can happen where you can accidentally, especially in like a HIPAA situation where you can accidentally breach some data because it's really a minimum necessary failure. So, on the other side of it with an intentional, I'm thinking that, you know, you have to classify your data really well. And then you can apply some process around your data with regards to access. So, if you know that there's sensitive data in this location or all those locations of sensitive data then you can build your processes to be more robust around those locations and more fine grain so that you can give just what they need and not any more than that. Always least privilege, right? Kliewer: Okay. Awesome. And that leads us right into our discussion that I said just a little bit ago that we were going to have as we get on down the road, because I heard you kind of leading into it again, but that's when we start talking about the role based access control and I'm going to be honest, that's something that in a textbook is really hard to explain and really hard to get the bigger picture of, and that's part of what our discussion here today is, is to help explain that to our listeners and to help, you know, how do we really break down that rolebased access control into a way that's understood and something that's easy for our learners as well as why it's so challenging. And I'm going to ask you your question for challenging here in just a moment, but it definitely is a challenge for that role-based access, because it's just like you said, what people want to do is they want to have individual access. This individual needs access to this. I know I personally have been in organizations where they said there is no way that you can create roles because we have too many people doing too many different jobs and helping out here and there. And that is one of the biggest challenges. And I'm curious if you've seen that challenge in your career and how you were able to work around that. Pennie: Sure. I found that, you know, I've seen it so many times in so many different areas, you know, be it in your HR area where, you know, they need access to all employee data, but does each individual HR employee need that access—that's questionable. So, what I've done in the past is focus on separation of duties. If they have, you know, certain access that's needed that's higher leveled or more privileged than others then I might separate that access out, one person can have these two, you know, privileges, but they can't have these other two, and give those other two to someone else, separating things out, making it more difficult to act especially going back to your intentional insider threat or otherwise separating those out is really a, I have found, to be the best approach. Even if you have just two people, right? If you're talking about one individual who's just got to have a lot of access which I've seen in my past organizations where we have some smaller groups that have just one individual doing a lot of people's jobs, in that case the best you can do is really do monitoring, auditing of their access, auditing of sensitive data locations, and just you know, doing some alerts because what's the point of an audit if you're not alerting on it. And what's the point of alert if no one's reviewing any reports on that. So that would be kind of a step in those processes as well. Kliewer: Awesome. So, I want to dive just a little bit deeper into what you were talking about, and you led right into the separation of duties. To me one of the easiest places to explain that separation of duties is in payroll and the separation a lot of times between human resources and payroll. Pennie: Yeah. Kliewer: And when you're talking about the separation and duties within a system, it really should be set up to where, and the one example I'm going to use is a person in payroll should not be able to enter a new employee into the system. Pennie: Right. Kliewer: Or set up payment for that employee. But payroll does, I mean, that's what they do, they issue payment, right? Pennie: Mm-hmm. Kliewer: So, what we're talking about here, we're talking about putting steps into the processes and where we can do that technically, we want to do that technically, you know, we want to prevent that person from being able to enter that new employee in the system. Ultimately, if you can you want to prevent the person that prints payroll checks from being able to update pay rates and that kind of stuff because that opens the door for that insider threat. Pennie: Yep. Kliewer: Whether it be intentional or not intentional, it still opens that door. Pennie: I've also looked at, sorry go ahead- Kliewer: Go ahead. Pennie: I've also looked at, you know, the person who can create an account can't or an employee can't remove it as well, because that's also a risk there. Kliewer: Yep, absolutely. But I'm going to add on there. I've seen a place and I've been in a place where we only had one payroll person who happened to be our accounts payable clerk as well. You know, so very small organization, those are difficult to do. Those are really difficult. We could still separate out the new employee, but when it came to separating out the payroll processes it just wasn't possible. I mean, we didn't have the granular ability within the system to do that. So, I can tell you what we ended up doing there was we ended up putting some manual checks in place. And when I say manual checks, that sounds really bad. I'm talking about payroll; I'm talking about manual checks but not those kinds of checks. I'm talking about the checks and balances kind of checks not the money kind. But what happened is we had to put some steps in place where basically that payroll clerk had to go to the CFO get a physical signature on that register that somebody else had reviewed it before it was processed. The downside of that is it doesn't actually prevent the fraud, but it does create an audit trail to show that things have been checked. So, the important part of that story is you can't always control everything technically. We'd like to think we can, but we know better, we know better than that. Pennie: That's why it goes back to your point about process. It's all about process. Kliewer: Yep, absolutely. It's where we got to connect those people. So that leads me right into the other people part of this conversation. So how have you found interdepartmental cooperation, such as partnering with HR to build more effective access control? How have you found good partnerships there? Pennie: Well, what I've seen and really recently is kind of a looking at how we can build our roles from the beginning. Whenever we classify an employee’s position and identifying those commonalities and in access. And then once we have identified these categories of job class I guess is what I would call it, then we would, you know, kind of assign access to just those areas and then maybe some optional access that they may or may not need. That way we can have some kind of flexibility when we assign access and approve access. And also, some automation. You can automate a lot easier when you define things from the beginning, it goes back to that classifying data. But in this case, classifying your position so that, you know, when someone comes in it's a streamlined process, you can automate it. You know if they're in this role, they're already approved for this particular base access. And it just really speeds things up. It makes it more user friendly all around and it reduces that burden on your HR side for approving access or any other area who may have to approve some access. So those are some of the things that I've seen recently is just kind of a classifying your user, your employee base and your position, starting with your positions. Kliewer: All right. Very good. And I'm going to back that off for our listeners just a little bit. At the very highest level, your relationship with HR, of course you know, everybody knows there there's two departments in any organization that you're always friends with. The first one is HR and payroll. The second one is IT. As long as you're friends with those two departments, you're going to do just fine in any company. But the biggest key information you can get from your HR and payroll departments is new hires and employee terminations. That's the number one most basic connection that you can make there. Make sure you know when somebody new is coming on board so hopefully you can be prepared as a security professional. You can be prepared for that employee coming on board, know what access they need, know when somebody leaves so you can terminate that access. So, we don't have a bunch of access left out there. Those are the most basic levels.  But you talked about being able to tie these security roles to what a person actually does. And I'll tell you the first time I sat down and thought about that, I'm like you know, how can we do that? How do we know what each person does? I sure wish I knew what Daisha did every day for her job, you know, so I could figure out what access that I think she needs. You know once again, that's what I think we have to work together to figure that out and know for sure what you need, but I got to figure like how can I ever figure that out? And then it finally dawned on me one day, you know what, somebody actually has all this information, and they wrote it down on a piece of paper, and that's HR and their job descriptions. And those job descriptions should absolutely align to what we do in security. Pennie: Mm-hmm. Kliewer: And when we're looking, you know, because HR is looking to categorize people mostly for pay purposes, but maybe for that job code and for certain departments and information security is also looking to categorize those people into what kind of access they need in the systems and those two very much align. And if you can build those, if you can build those synergies between your HR, your payroll, between your job descriptions and connect the people through those managers to build those roles and to create that role-based access control. Pennie: Yeah. Kliewer: It is absolutely priceless. So, we're just about out of time here Daisha. I do want to give you an opportunity if there's any last-minute words, you'd like to give our listeners on access controls or anything else I want to give you the chance to do that. Pennie: Well, I think you made a good point about partnerships because it really is an organization wide process that you build around all of your access. So, each and every step of the way I think sometimes in IT we get very kind of narrow focused, and we think we can just technically, like you mentioned, solve all the problems, but sometimes it's definitely a lot of times, especially with security, it's a people business. So, you’ve got to get in and make those relationships and build those partnerships so that you can develop processes that are effective. And that's what that UK breach found. It's a cultural thing. It's an organizational thing. That's where access control really comes together effectively. Kliewer: Absolutely. And thank you much for that. And I'm going to summarize our statements there because that that was a great conversation that we had on that. And we definitely have to remember to stay in touch. Although we tend to think technically, we tend to think it's access allowed, access denied, but we've got to connect that to the people and without connecting it to the people the access control is exactly that, it's control, and control is not what we're trying to do here, but we're trying to make sure the right people have the right access to the right information at the right time. Pennie: That's it. Kliewer: That's a whole lot of rights. Pennie: Yes. Kliewer: But that's the overall goal. So, to our listeners, I hope you all have enjoyed this discussion. I know I definitely have, and again, many, many, many thanks to our special guest Daisha Pennie for volunteering to share her time and her experience with us today. Thank you very much. Pennie: Happy to be here. 