Narrator: What sorts of activities can threaten the elements of the CIA Triad?  Consider a coworker sharing passwords. Perhaps Joe gives Joanne his password because he is home sick and needs Joanne to sign on to his work computer to get information he needs. But later, Joanne is fired from her job. The employer cancels Joanne’s credentials but isn’t aware that Joanne also knows Joe’s password. Joanne is disgruntled and decides to take revenge on her old company by using Joe’s credentials to change or delete important files. Or in less hostile circumstances, improper use of the password could accidentally result in the introduction of unauthorized software that is riddled with malware.  Another example is the laptop of a remote worker being left unattended or unlocked in the worker’s home. Children or other family members may decide to play games on the computer. They upload legal but contaminated software or files, leading to a corrupt workstation with compromised integrity.  The elements of the CIA Triad can also be compromised by ill-preparedness against acts of nature. For instance, a long-term power outage may lead to backup generators that run out of fuel or that suffer mechanical failures if not properly maintained.  As a final example, improper fire suppression methods can affect the CIA Triad by irreparably damaging or destroying both digital and analog information.  All these examples show that a comprehensive risk assessment of technical, human and environmental threats must be completed, then appropriate mitigation options must be put in place to protect the security and integrity of an organization’s information.  