Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN)
Virtual local area networks (VLANs) allow network administrators to use switches to create software-based LAN segments, which can segregate or consolidate traffic across multiple switch ports. Devices that share a VLAN communicate through switches as if they were on the same Layer 2 network. This image shows different VLANs — red, green and blue — connecting separate sets of ports together, while sharing the same network segment (consisting of the two switches and their connection). Since VLANs act as discrete networks, communications between VLANs must be enabled. Broadcast traffic is limited to the VLAN, reducing congestion and reducing the effectiveness of some attacks. Administration of the environment is simplified, as the VLANs can be reconfigured when individuals change their physical location or need access to different services. VLANs can be configured based on switch port, IP subnet, MAC address and protocols.

VLANs do not guarantee a network’s security. At first glance, it may seem that traffic cannot be intercepted because communication within a VLAN is restricted to member devices. However, there are attacks that allow a malicious user to see traffic from other VLANs (so-called VLAN hopping). The VLAN technology is only one tool that can improve the overall security of the network environment.


## VLAN Segmentation:
Narrator: VLANS are virtual separations within a switch and are used mainly to limit broadcast traffic. A VLAN can be configured to communicate with other VLANs or not, and may be used to segregate network segments.  There are a few common uses of VLANs in corporate networks. The first is to separate Voice Over IP (VOIP) telephones from the corporate network. This is most often done to more effectively manage the network traffic generated by voice communications by isolating it from the rest of the network.  Another common use of VLANs in a corporate network is to separate the data center from all other network traffic. This makes it easier to keep the server-to-server traffic contained to the data center network while allowing certain traffic from workstations or the web to access the servers. As briefly discussed earlier, VLANs can also be used to segment networks. For example, a VLAN can separate the payroll workstations from the rest of the workstations in the network. Routing rules can also be used to only allow devices within this Payroll VLAN to access the servers containing payroll information.  Earlier, we also discussed Network Access Control (NAC). These systems use VLANs to control whether devices connect to the corporate network or to a guest network. Even though a wireless access controller may attach to a single port on a physical network switch, the VLAN associated with the device connection on the wireless access controller determines the VLAN that the device operates on and to which networks it is allowed to connect.  Finally, in large corporate networks, VLANs can be used to limit the amount of broadcast traffic within a network. This is most common in networks of more than 1,000 devices and may be separated by department, location/building, or any other criteria as needed.  The most important thing to remember is that while VLANs are logically separated, they may be allowed to access other VLANs. They can also be configured to deny access to other VLANs. 


Virtual Private Network (VPN)
A virtual private network (VPN) is not necessarily an encrypted tunnel. It is simply a point-to-point connection between two hosts that allows them to communicate. Secure communications can, of course, be provided by the VPN, but only if the security protocols have been selected and correctly configured to provide a trusted path over an untrusted network, such as the internet. Remote users employ VPNs to access their organization’s network, and depending on the VPN’s implementation, they may have most of the same resources available to them as if they were physically at the office. As an alternative to expensive dedicated point-to-point connections, organizations use gateway-to-gateway VPNs to securely transmit information over the internet between sites or even with business partners.




Which term describes a communication tunnel that provides point-to-point transmission of both authentication and data traffic over an untrusted network? (D4, L4.3.2) 
 A. VPN
Correct. A Virtual Private Network (VPN) describes a communication tunnel that provides point-to-point transmission of both authentication and data traffic over an untrusted network.

 B. Zero Trust
Incorrect. Zero trust is a concept that uses microsegmentation to protect network segments.

 C. DMZ
Incorrect. DMZ is a virtual segment usually defined by a firewall that contains less-trusted devices between the corporate network and the internet.

 D. None of the Above
Incorrect. A Virtual Private Network (VPN) describes a communication tunnel that provides point-to-point transmission of both authentication and data traffic over an untrusted network.