Cloud Characteristics
Cloud-based assets include any resources that an organization accesses using cloud computing. Cloud computing refers to on-demand access to computing resources available from almost anywhere, and cloud computing resources are highly available and easily scalable. Organizations typically lease cloud-based resources from outside the organization. Cloud computing has many benefits for organizations, which include but are not limited to: 

Usage is metered and priced according to units (or instances) consumed. This can also be billed back to specific departments or functions.
Reduced cost of ownership. There is no need to buy any assets for everyday use, no loss of asset value over time and a reduction of other related costs of maintenance and support.
Reduced energy and cooling costs, along with “green IT” environment effect with optimum use of IT resources and systems.
Allows an enterprise to scale up new software or data-based services/solutions through cloud systems quickly and without having to install massive hardware locally.



Service Models
Some cloud-based services only provide data storage and access. When storing data in the cloud, organizations must ensure that security controls are in place to prevent unauthorized access to the data. 

There are varying levels of responsibility for assets depending on the service model. This includes maintaining the assets, ensuring they remain functional, and keeping the systems and applications up to date with current patches. In some cases, the cloud service provider is responsible for these steps. In other cases, the consumer is responsible for these steps. 

Types of cloud computing service models include Software as a Service (SaaS) , Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).

	- Software as a Service (SaaS):
	Software as a Service (SaaS): A cloud provides access to software applications such as email or office productivity tools. SaaS is a distributed model where software applications are hosted by a vendor or cloud service provider and made available to customers over network resources. SaaS is a widely used and adopted form of cloud computing, with users most often needing an internet connection and access credentials to have full use of the cloud service, application and data. SaaS has many benefits for organizations, which include but are not limited to: Ease of use and limited/minimal administration. Automatic updates and patch management. The user will always be running the latest version and most up-to-date deployment of the software release, as well as any relevant security updates, with no manual patching required. Standardization and compatibility. All users will have the same version of the software release.
	
	- Platform as a Service (PaaS):
	Platform as a Service (PaaS): A cloud provides an environment for customers to use to build and operate their own software. PaaS is a way for customers to rent hardware, operating systems, storage and network capacity over the internet from a cloud service provider. The service delivery model allows customers to rent virtualized servers and associated services for running existing applications or developing and testing new ones. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure, including network, servers, operating systems or storage, but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application-hosting environment configurations. A PaaS cloud provides a toolkit for conveniently developing, deploying and administering application software that is structured to support large numbers of consumers, process very large quantities of data and potentially be accessed from any point on the internet. PaaS clouds will typically provide a set of software building blocks and a set of development tools such as programming languages and supporting run-time environments that facilitate the construction of high-quality, scalable applications. Additionally, PaaS clouds will typically provide tools that assist with the deployment of new applications. In some cases, deploying a new software application in a PaaS cloud is not much more difficult than uploading a file to a web server. PaaS clouds will also generally provide and maintain the computing resources (e.g., processing, storage and networking) that consumer applications need to operate. PaaS clouds provide many benefits for developers, including that the operating system can be changed and upgraded frequently, along with associated features and system services.
	
	- Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):
	Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): A cloud provides network access to traditional computing resources such as processing power and storage. IaaS models provide basic computing resources to consumers. This includes servers, storage, and in some cases, networking resources. Consumers install operating systems and applications and perform all required maintenance on the operating systems and applications. Although the consumer has use of the related equipment, the cloud service provider retains ownership and is ultimately responsible for hosting, running and maintenance of the hardware. IaaS is also referred to as hardware as a service by some customers and providers. IaaS has a number of benefits for organizations, which include but are not limited to: Ability to scale up and down infrastructure services based on actual usage. This is particularly useful and beneficial where there are significant spikes and dips within the usage curve for infrastructure. Retain system control at the operating system level.
	
	
	
	
Deployment Models
There are four cloud deployment models. The cloud deployment model also affects the breakdown of responsibilities of the cloud-based assets. The four cloud models available are public, private, hybrid and community .
	- Public:
	Public clouds are what we commonly refer to as the cloud for the public user. It is very easy to get access to a public cloud. There is no real mechanism, other than applying for and paying for the cloud service. It is open to the public and is, therefore, a shared resource that many people will be able to use as part of a resource pool. A public cloud deployment model includes assets available for any consumers to rent or lease and is hosted by an external cloud service provider (CSP). Service level agreements can be effective at ensuring the CSP provides the cloud-based services at a level acceptable to the organization.
	
	= Private:
	Private clouds begin with the same technical concept as public clouds, except that instead of being shared with the public, they are generally developed and deployed for a private organization that builds its own cloud. Organizations can create and host private clouds using their own resources. Therefore, this deployment model includes cloud-based assets for a single organization. As such, the organization is responsible for all maintenance. However, an organization can also rent resources from a third party and split maintenance requirements based on the service model (SaaS, PaaS or IaaS). Private clouds provide organizations and their departments private access to the computing, storage, networking and software assets that are available in the private cloud.
	
	- Hybrid:
	A hybrid cloud deployment model is created by combining two forms of cloud computing deployment models, typically a public and private cloud. Hybrid cloud computing is gaining popularity with organizations by providing them with the ability to retain control of their IT environments, conveniently allowing them to use public cloud service to fulfill non-mission-critical workloads, and taking advantage of flexibility, scalability and cost savings. Important drivers or benefits of hybrid cloud deployments include: Retaining ownership and oversight of critical tasks and processes related to technology, Reusing previous investments in technology within the organization, Control over most critical business components and systems, and Cost-effective means to fulfilling noncritical business functions (utilizing public cloud components).
	
	- Community:
	Community clouds can be either public or private. What makes them unique is that they are generally developed for a particular community. An example could be a public community cloud focused primarily on organic food, or maybe a community cloud focused specifically on financial services. The idea behind the community cloud is that people of like minds or similar interests can get together, share IT capabilities and services, and use them in a way that is beneficial for the particular interests that they share.