Network Access Control (NAC)
An organization’s network is perhaps one of its most critical assets. As such, it is vital that we both know and control access to it, both from insiders (e.g., employees, contractors) and outsiders (e.g., customers, corporate partners, vendors). We need to be able to see who and what is attempting to make a network connection.

At one time, network access was limited to internal devices. Gradually, that was extended to remote connections, although initially those were the exceptions rather than the norm. This started to change with the concepts of bring your own device (BYOD) and Internet of Things (IoT).

Considering just IoT for a moment, it is important to understand the range of devices that might be found within an organization. They include heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that monitor the ambient temperature and adjust the heating or cooling levels automatically or air monitoring systems, through security systems, sensors and cameras, right down to vending and coffee machines. Look around your own environment and you will quickly see the scale of their use.

Having identified the need for a NAC solution, we need to identify what capabilities a solution may provide. As we know, everything begins with a policy. The organization’s access control policies and associated security policies should be enforced via the NAC device(s). Remember, of course, that an access control device only enforces a policy and doesn’t create one.

The NAC device will provide the network visibility needed for access security and may later be used for incident response. Aside from identifying connections, it should also be able to provide isolation for noncompliant devices within a quarantined network and provide a mechanism to “fix” the noncompliant elements, such as turning on endpoint protection. In short, the goal is to ensure that all devices wishing to join the network do so only when they comply with the requirements laid out in the organization policies. This visibility will encompass internal users as well as any temporary users such as guests or contractors, etc., and any devices they may bring with them into the organization.

Let’s consider some possible use cases for NAC deployment: 

Medical devices
IoT devices
BYOD/mobile devices (laptops, tablets, smartphones)
Guest users and contractors
As we have established, it is critically important that all mobile devices, regardless of their owner, go through an onboarding process, ideally each time a network connection is made, and that the device is identified and interrogated to ensure the organization’s policies are being met. 


Narrator: At its simplest form, Network Access Control, or NAC, is a way to prevent unwanted devices from connecting to a network. Some NAC systems allow for the installation of required software on the end user’s device to enforce device compliance to policy prior to connecting.  A high-level example of a NAC system is hotel internet access. Typically, a user connecting to the hotel network is required to acknowledge the acceptable use policy before being allowed to access the internet. After the user clicks the acknowledge button, the device is connected to the network that enables internet access. Some hotels add an additional layer requiring the guest to enter a special password or a room number and guest name before access is granted. This prevents abuse by someone who is not a hotel guest and may even help to track network abuse to a particular user.   A slightly more complex scenario is a business that separates employee BYOD devices from corporate-owned devices on the network. If the BYOD device is pre-approved and allowed to connect to the corporate network, the NAC system can validate the device using a hardware address or installed software, and even check to make sure the antivirus software and operating system software are up to date before connecting it to the network. Alternatively, if it is a personal device not allowed to connect to the corporate network, it can be redirected to the guest network for internet access without access to internal corporate resources.







Network Segmentation (Demilitarized Zone (DMZ))
Network segmentation is also an effective way to achieve defense in depth for distributed or multi-tiered applications. The use of a demilitarized zone (DMZ), for example, is a common practice in security architecture. With a DMZ, host systems that are accessible through the firewall are physically separated from the internal network by means of secured switches or by using an additional firewall to control traffic between the web server and the internal network. Application DMZs (or semi-trusted networks) are frequently used today to limit access to application servers to those networks or systems that have a legitimate need to connect.  

Narrator: A web front end server might be in the DMZ, but it might retrieve data from a database server that is on the other side of the firewall.   For example, you may have a network where you manage your client’s personal information, and even if the data is encrypted or obfuscated by cryptography, you need to make sure the network is completely segregated from the rest of the network with some secure switches that only an authorized individual has access to. Only authorized personnel can control the firewall settings and control the traffic between the web server and the internal network. For example, in a hospital or a doctor’s office, you would have a segregated network for the patient information and billing, and on the other side would be the electronic medical records. If they are using a web-based application for medical record services, they would have a demilitarized zone or segmented areas. And perhaps even behind the firewall, they have their own specified server to protect the critical information and keep it segregated.  It is worth noting at this point that while this course will not explore the specifics, some networks use a web application firewall (WAF) rather than a DMZ network. The WAF has an internal and an external connection like a traditional firewall, with the external traffic being filtered by the traditional or next generation firewall first. It monitors all traffic, encrypted or not, from the outside for malicious behavior before passing commands to a web server that may be internal to the network.   