Disaster Recovery in the Real World
We need to make sure that an organization’s critical systems are formally identified and have backups that are regularly tested. Sometimes an incident is not recognized or detected until days or months later.  


At a hospital in Los Angeles, it took 260 days (about 8 and a half months) to discover that there was a compromise. In this case, the hospital could not return to doing business by using the last backup because it was riddled with a time-based malware that would corrupt all the data on the system as soon as it was restored. The hospital needed to go back nearly a year prior to discovering the incident to restore the entire system, and then restore the remaining data piece-by-piece to avoid reinfection. This scenario highlights the need for multiple levels of backup and retention periods to address the needs of the organization.



Complex systems can often store valuable information across several servers. While at its most basic level, disaster recovery plans include backing up data at a server level, it is also necessary to consider the database itself, as well as any dependencies on other systems. In this more complex scenario, data is entered by users into one system and database and is then distributed to other systems. This is common in large enterprises where multiple systems need to talk to each other to maintain common data. In another hospital example, the radiology department used a different system than the laboratory. In this case, a separate routine copied the patient data from the registration system to the laboratory and the radiology systems, which technically use separate databases. It is important to understand the flow of data and the intricate dependencies of one system on another to properly document and implement a disaster recovery plan that will be successful when it is needed.