Narrator: The first part of preparation is identifying the critical information that needs protection and avoiding any single point of failure. This means that if we have something particularly important, but it is protected by just one door, we create multiple layers of protection to reduce the likelihood of a successful attack. We will talk more later about the principle of defense in depth, but like a fortress, the more layers of defense we have, the more difficult it will be for attackers who are trying to break through.  It is important to train staff in incident response so that everyone knows what to do. Training can include simulations and scenarios so teams can practice their response and learn to coordinate communication among the different stakeholders of the organization. That includes colleagues, superiors, the owners of the information and customers as well. We need to consider what types of communication will be available, because we cannot communicate the same information to everyone. Some material will be confidential, and some will be useful only to certain people and not to the press or outside individuals.  When it comes to detection and analysis, we need to monitor the attack vectors, how the attack was made and what technology was used. It is important to standardize the incident documentation, because in a group of people, each will have their own idea of how to record activities and procedures. For the consistency of the organization and our responsibility to the data owners, we need to have a standardized incident response, where each person knows exactly what needs to be done and in what sequence. This makes it easier to prioritize the response, because each person has their own tasks and knows how to take care of their own responsibilities then communicate appropriately with others concerned.  Next, we need to find the appropriate containment strategy, identify the attackers and how they penetrated our defenses, and isolate the attack, making sure it does not go any further or do additional damage. After the incident, we identify evidence that may need to be retained then, often, there is an internal audit of what occurred. External investigation may also be required, especially in major cyberattacks where law enforcement is involved. Lessons learned must be documented. Perhaps, it will be found that we responded better than during a previous attack, but we still need to improve preparation or detection analysis. Often, these post-incident activities are subject to regulatory requirements, and certain documentation must be submitted. This is especially important if the compromised critical information is protected by law.  