Privileged Access Management
Privileged access management provides the first and perhaps most familiar use case. Consider a human user identity that is granted various create, read, update, and delete privileges on a database. Without privileged access management, the system’s access control would have those privileges assigned to the administrative user in a static way, effectively “on” 24 hours a day, every day. Security would be dependent upon the login process to prevent misuse of that identity. Just-in-time privileged access management, by contrast, includes role-based specific subsets of privileges that only become active in real time when the identity is requesting the use of a resource or service. 

Consider this scenario explaining why privileged access management is important:

ABC, Inc., has a small IT department that is responsible for user provisioning and administering systems. To save time, the IT department employees added their IDs to the Domain Admins group, effectively giving them access to everything within the Windows server and workstation environment. While reviewing an invoice that was received via email, they opened an email that had a malicious attachment that initiated a ransomware attack. Since they are using Domain Admin privileges, the ransomware was able to encrypt all the files on all servers and workstations. A privileged access management solution could limit the damage done by this ransomware if the administrator privileges are only used when performing a function requiring that level of access. Routine operations, such as daily email tasks, are done without a higher level of access. 