Risk Assessment
Risk assessment is defined as the process of identifying, estimating and prioritizing risks to an organization’s operations (including its mission, functions, image and reputation), assets, individuals, other organizations and even the nation. Risk assessment should result in aligning (or associating) each identified risk resulting from the operation of an information system with the goals, objectives, assets or processes that the organization uses, which in turn aligns with or directly supports achieving the organization’s goals and objectives. 

A common risk assessment activity identifies the risk of fire to a building. While there are many ways to mitigate that risk, the primary goal of a risk assessment is to estimate and prioritize. For example, fire alarms are the lowest cost and can alert personnel to evacuate and reduce the risk of personal injury, but they won’t keep a fire from spreading or causing more damage. Sprinkler systems won’t prevent a fire but can minimize the amount of damage done. However, while sprinklers in a data center limit the fire’s spread, it is likely they will destroy all the systems and data on them. A gas-based system may be the best solution to protect the systems, but it might be cost-prohibitive. A risk assessment can prioritize these items for management to determine the method of mitigation that best suits the assets being protected. 

The result of the risk assessment process is often documented as a report or presentation given to management for their use in prioritizing the identified risk(s). This report is provided to management for review and approval. In some cases, management may indicate a need for a more in-depth or detailed risk assessment performed by internal or external resources.  